---
layout: single
classes: wide
title: Electro-Magnetic Field Boundaries
permalink: /reference/emf_bound
usemathjax: true

sidebar:
  nav: "ref"
---

This section configures the boundary conditions to use for the
electro-magnetic fields and must be present in the input file. It
accepts the following data:

- **type**(2, x_dim), character(\*), default = "---"
- **vpml_bnd_size**, integer, default = 10
- **vpml_diffuse**(2, x_dim), logical, default = .false.

**type** specifies the boundary conditions to use for the
electro-magnetic fields. type(k,i), with k = {1,2} and i = {1, ...,
x_dim} specifies the boundary condition in the i direction for the lower
(k=1) or upper (k=2) boundary. The following are valid values for type:

- *"axial"* - Axial boundary condition for 2D cylindrical coordinates
- *"lindman"* - Lindmann open space boundary conditions
- *"vpml"* or "open" - Perfectly matched layers as absorbing boundary
  conditions (Vay's hybrid algorithm
- *"conducting"/"pec"* - Conducting (perfect electric conductor)
  boundary conditions
- *"reflecting"/"pmc"* - Reflecting (perfect magnetic conductor)
  boundary conditions

If periodic boundaries or a moving window has been specified for a given
direction then type is ignored for that direction. Note that you cannot
have any corners where the boundaries on both sides are of the Lindmann
open space type. Also note that specifying conducting or reflecting
boundary conditions will force the code to use a reflecting boundary
condition for electric current on the same boundary.

**vpml_bnd_size** specifies the PML boundary thickness in cell number.
It is a constant for all walls.

**vpml_diffuse** (2D only) specifies diffusion between PML components to
reduce noise generated by particles contacting with wall. When
activated, absorption of B3 components is strongly reduced. Therefore,
it should not be activated when pulses with B3 component are present.

Here's an example of an emf_bound section for a 2D run that sets the the
boundary conditions in the x1 direction to conducting boundaries and in
the x2 direction to open boundaries.

```text
emf_bound
{
  type(1:2,1) =    "conducting",   "conducting",
  type(1:2,2) =          "open",         "open",
}
```
